# WIP - Mattermost the Company  

Mattermost is an open source, remote-first, communities-centered company based in Palo Alto, California and headquartered on the internet. 

**Open source** means by default we make our technology, business process and source code available to the public. We develop a small portion as propreitary technology, built upon our open source work, to license for subscription fees that enable more high quality open source work to be produced. Since the start of the Mattermost open source project in 2015 we have used this model to develop effective open source solutions for the world to use. 

**Remote-first** means by default our staff works anywhere in the world where a) we have support for quality video calling and b) where we can work in a legally appropriate environment. Mattermost was born in an extraordinary age where organizations can attract, hire and enable remote teams--working out of homes coffee shops and co-working spaces across timezones--to produce better technology and business results in less time than purely office-based teams, while maintaining security and compliance standards. 

Remote-first culture flourishes when we share one simple principle: **Courtesy**. Courtesy means Mattermosters are thoughtful about keeping our communities appropriately informed, following etiquette for discussions, calls and video meetings, and giving and receiving feedback on how to work better together. Courtesy also means we gladly accomodate those who prefer to work out of a dedicated office. We are remote-first, not remote-only. 

**Communities-centered** means we define our success in the context of the success of our [communities](https://docs.mattermost.com/process/community-overview.html): users, customers, implementers, resellers, technology partners, contributors, and colleagues. The success of each community is owned by a member of the Mattermost leadership team. The plural definition of "communities" is intended to avoid unconsciously marginalizing downstream stakeholders. Referring to open source contributers as "the community", as if no other communities should be recognized, is like saying "a developer should format his code according to the style guide of the project". These statements may sound normal to the speaker, but they can unintentionally marginalize others.  

**Based in Palo Alto, California and headquartered on the internet** means the mailing address for Mattermost, Inc. is in Palo Alto, California, and our headquarters is on the internet, specifically the Mattermost instance at https://community.mattermost.com. Our online headquarters is where Mattermost staff work with our communities of colleagues, users, partners, customers and contributors, to envision, develop and refine new open source technologies to make the world safer and more productive. Staff at headquarters, working in an open source, remote-first, communities-centered company are "Mattermosters". Staff who choose to work from an office are called "Commuters". We have office space for commuters in San Francisco, California, and on-demand space via Regus and WeWork around the world.
